Our project endeavored to create a music review website (similar to Rotten Tomatoes) that allowed users to view critic reviews of albums and rate and review those albums as well. Our first step was finding data to create a database that we could traverse with SQL. To do this, we downloaded two datasets of music reviews from Kaggle: one of reviews by Anthony Fantano (a prominent music reviewer on Youtube) and one of reviews from Metacritic. If we had had more time, we would have looked for other critic databases as well to aggregate into our project. These databases were combined and imported into our albums.db as well as tables for the users and the reviews. The users table stores the information about the users who register on our website: their id, username, display name, and hash for the password. We also have fields for "saved album" and "saved artist" because we intended to code a way for users to mark specific albums that they want to listen to. However, we didn't have time to implement this. The reviews table has fields for the album name, the artist, the user id of the user who submitted the review, and the review and rating for that album.

Once our website is loaded, the user can register on our page. They must submit a username, display name, and password (and they must confirm that password). By registering, they are entered into our users database. The next time they visit our website, they will be able to log in with that username and password. Once they are logged in, the user will also see an Account page where they can change their password.

On the home page (regardless of whether the user is logged in or not) they will see a carousel with a slideshow of different album covers from our fantano table (these links came with the database we downloaded). The list is randomly generated to give the user a new carousel each time. The images can be clicked to go to the album page that will render with information about that album. The image quality is pretty poor, and we spent a while trying to find a better database or an api to use to import better quality images, but weren’t able to get anything to work. Our homepage also displays a list of the top 100 albums based on the aggregated ratings from both the fantano table and the metacritic table in our albums.db. The rating is standardized in our home script in app.py (the fantano ratings are out of 10 and the metacritic ratings are out of 100, so we multiplied the fantano rating by 10 and then averaged the fantano and metacritic ratings. Users can click on the titles of the albums and they will be taken to our album webpage that renders differently depending on the title of the album that was clicked. We pass the information of the album to the album page through variables stored in the URL which are then read by a JavaScript QueryString. We realized that to create a different webpage for each album, we would need to learn how to use Ajax and we ran out of time to do that. Here, the user can see the album cover (if it is in our database) and can leave a review and rating of the album. On this page, we had to include fields for the album title and album artist, because we could not figure out a way to translate variables on an html page back to app.py without using the form. Once the user submits a review, this is added to our reviews table in albums.db. We ran into a similar issue as earlier when trying to display the reviews specific to each album. Originally, we hoped we could display them on our album webpage, but we eventually settled to have them displayed on the results page following a search of the album as we could not figure out how to pass variables from HTML to python.

On our search page, the user can type in the name (or part of the name) of an album, and this will query our database for related titles. The user is then sent to our results page which displays the results of the query (all related titles) as well as the reviews for each of the displayed albums. We were able to accomplish displaying the searched terms and the results by creating our searched function in helpers.py which returns a results table that queries albums.db for all the albums and their artists that are related to the search term. ‘Searched’ also returns a reviews table that queries albums.db for the album title, artist, and all the reviews that users have posted for that album along with the ratings that they gave the albums.

In the top bar, users can also click on Top Charts which will take them to a page that displays lists of the top 10 albums for the genres with the most number of albums rated. We found this list of genres by querying the metacritic table in our database which has a genre field for all the albums reviewed. This page displays the title, artist, and Peanut Score (our aggregated score) of the top ten albums in each genre.

Finally, our website features a Suggest page where users can submit albums that aren’t currently in our database. There are many fields for them to fill out, but the page will return errors if the user does not submit the title, artist, project art, rating, and display name. Once we get this information, we add the album to our reviews table, our metacritic table, and our fantano table.
